
# Banco  de  España

## Description
Bank system has a microservice architecture. Server and client linked by GRPC.
Also system has support of GRPC-Gateway - it means, that client can communicate
with server with help of JSON-messages.
System use data store - Postgres DB - in separate docker container (pg-bank).

All applications (data store, server, gateway) working in one docker network
(named `net` by default).

## Opportunities
- Add / remove client;
- Get list of all clients;
- Get information about client;

- Create new account;
- Remove existing account;
- Get list of all accounts;
- Get list of all accounts by client id;
- Get information about account;
- Update account;

- Get balance of account;
- Change balance of account;
- Transfer money from one account to another account;

- Get list of all transactions;
- Get list of transaction by custom period;
- Cancel transaction;

New transaction is creating for every operations with accounts. Transaction can be cancelled.

##  Project structure
- api - sourse files, generated by protoc compiler;
- bankservice - implementation of service logig;
- client - simple console client (demonstrate purpose);
- docker - docker-files for applications;
- proto - .proto files for describing all structures and methods (grpc);
- sqlstore - files needed to working with database container;
- src - entry point source codef for applications (server, gateway);
- validate - validation methods implementations;
- vendor - project dependencies (managed by `go dep`).

## Local build

### Requirments for local machine
- go compiler (v 1.9 and later);
- make;
- dep;
- docker;
- protoc compiler (for GRPC).

### Try to build && run
`make gen` - generating source codes from proto-schema by protoc compiler;
`make dep` - downloads all project dependencies;
`make init` - creating new docker network (called `net` by default) and create postgres docker
container (named `pg-bank`. `postgres:10.3-alpine` image by default).
`make up` - starting `pg-bank` (data store), `bank_microservice` (server)
and `gw_bank` (grpc-gateway) docker containers. Depends on `image` target.

`make image` - create `bank:latest`(server) and `gw-bank`(grpc-gateway) docker images.
This images copy `.bin` files and running their in alpine-container. Depends on `build` target.
`make build` - compiling `.bin` files from source codes (move .bin files in /bin folder).

In case of success execution of `make up` - try to execute `docker ps` - you will see
3 docker containers (`pg-bank`, `bank_microservice` and `gw_bank`). Now you can to try
execute some bank operations.

Also you can use:
`make db-create` - migrating .sql schema from `./sqlstore/schema.sql` to postgres database
(creating database and filling by testing data).

`make down` - stopping and removing `gw_bank` and `bank_microservice` docker
containers, removing `gw-bank` and `bank` docker images.
`make clean` - the same as `make down` and also stopping and removing `pg-bank` docker
container and image; removing docker network; removing `./bin` folder.
